# Meeting on 02/05/2023

## Previous tasks

+ {Van-Giang}Continue to optimize Preprocessing SSF.
+ {Van-Giang}Implement the heuristic for setting retained_set.
+ ~~{Kyu}Revise the error of Pint-reach.~~
+ {Jordan}Write a specification document describing target features of our tool.
+ {Sam}Optimize the percolation function.

## Progress

### Implement the heuristic for setting retained_set

If the majority of all assignments make `f_i` TRUE, then `b_i = 1`.

If the majority of all assignments make `f_i` FALSE, then `b_i = 0`.

Otherwise, `b_i = random.randint(0, 1)`.

I found that the heuristic gives a smaller candidate set than that obtained by setting all `b_i` to 0 in most cases. In particular, for the `BBM-210` model, the latter gives 2364 candidates at node 0, whereas the former gives only 302.

### Optimize Preprocessing SSF

Preprocessing SSF has been the same as the one in mtsNFVS. However, it was quite slow due to dict to bdd conversion is very slow (Issue #49). I have used the new code of Jordan. The improvement is **significant**.

I tested it on several real-world models. Note that the optimization on terminal restriction space was not used. New version = old version + heuristic + Jordan's new code.

| Model              | # atts | Old version (s) | New version (s) | Speedup |
| ------------------ | ------ | --------------- | --------------- | ------- |
| remy_tumorigenesis | 25     | 3.19            | 2.53            | 1.26    |
| zhang_tlgl         | 156    | 145.57          | 35.35           | 4.12    |
| zhang_tlgl_v2      | 258    | 135.99          | 59.14           | 2.30    |
| BBM-051            | 5      | 3.46            | 1.24            | 2.79    |
| BBM-145            | 1      | 0.71            | 0.39            | 1.82    |
| BBM-210            | 1      | 600             | 35.86           | 16.73   |
| BBM-151            | 2      | 172.27          | 47.19           | 3.65    |
| Random-2           | 5      | 276.50          | 26.06           | 10.61   |

### Terminal restriction space

The use of terminal restriction space seems not effective, i.e., `|F|` is not reduced in most cases. Whereas, the computation of terminal restriction space is too costly in some cases, whose reason might be due to the slow performance of the current version of the percolation function. Hence, I think we can omit the use of terminal restriction space temporally.

### Optimize the percolation function

Issue #50: potential percolation error

Jordan has added the new code optimizing the percolation function using BDDs.

### Non-deterministism in nfvs-motifs

Currently, nfvs-motifs has non-deterministism in two parts. The first one is the heuristic for setting retained_set. The second one is the choice of an update node in Pre-processing SSF. I found that the above non-deterministism is unavoidable. In a positive side, these non-deterministic natures can help nfvs-motifs jump out from some "stuck", and we can exploited them.



For setting retained_set, we can use the sampling approach to choose the best one, i.e., the setting gives the smallest candidate set among `k` sampled settings. This approach can be effective because the computation of candidate sets is usually very fast. The important thing is how to generate `k` "good" settings.

### Some issues

**Issue 1**: In some models (e.g., Random-41, Random-45), the computation of fixed points of the reduced STG is too slow. I am investigating more.



**Issue 2**: In some minimal trap spaces, the number of free variable is still too large, leading to Pre-processing SSF is very hard to reach "easy" cases. Fortunately, this phenomenon only happens for randomly generated N-K models. Hence, this issue is not critical. However, I will still pay attention to overcome it.



**Issue 3**: The full succession diagram has too many nodes.



Recall that the full SD construction follows a BFS manner, whereas the simplified SD construction follows a DFS manner.



Regarding target control, we can build a *target-driven* SD once we specify a target minimal trap space. There are two cases. Case 1: control for every update scheme. Case 2: control for the fully asynchronous update scheme. For Case 1, we simply obtain control interventions from the target-driven SD. For Case 2, we need to check the existence of motif-avoidant attractors at each node of the target-driven SD.



Regarding attractor detection, we will have several options as follows.



**Option 1**: Full SD construction + motif-avoidant attractor checking, named `full-SD-att`

**Option 2**: Simplified SD construction, named `simplified-SD-att`

**Option 3**: Full SD construction + motif-avoidant attractor checking + cut-off (based on number of created nodes), named `cut-off-full-SD-att`

**Option 4**: Simplified SD construction + cut-off (based on created BDDs and number of created nodes) + motif-avoidant attractor checking, named` cut-off-simplified-SD-att`



Note that for all the above options, we still need to compute attractors **inside** minimal trap spaces.



Sam is implementing the four options. We expect that `cut-off-simplified-SD-att`will be the best one.



### Plan for publication

Sam will present the detailed plan right now.



## Next tasks

+ {Van-Giang}Investigate the issue on the computation of fixed points of the reduced STG is too slow.
+ {Van-Giang}Implement and test the sampling approach for setting retained_set.
+ {Kyu}Make the experimental design.
+ {Jordan}Write a specification document describing target features of our tool.
+ {Sam}Finish implementing the four options for attractor detection.
+ {Jordan}Implement the control algorithms.
+ {All}Start following the detailed plan.



## Next meeting

2:30 pm Tuesday 09/05/2023