# Meeting on 24/04/2023

## Previous tasks

+ {Van-Giang}Optimize Preprocessing SSF.
+ {Kyu}Create a pull request for the new code on the computation of terminal restriction space. After that, everyone can test its correctness.
+ {Jordan}Write a specification document describing target features of our tool.
+ {Sam}Optimize the percolation function.



## Progress

### Optimize Preprocessing SSF

Now, Preprocessing SSF is the same as the one in mtsNFVS.

I tested it on some real-world models from PyBoolNet's repository. Note that the optimization on terminal restriction space was not used.

| Model              | # fixed points | # atts | Old version (s) | New version (s) |
| ------------------ | -------------- | ------ | --------------- | --------------- |
| remy_tumorigenesis | 20             | 5      | 9.45            | 3.19            |
| zhang_tlgl         | 86             | 70     | 308.49          | 145.57          |
| zhang_tlgl_v2      | 71             | 187    | 150.42          | 135.99          |

Some more tests:

+ BBM-051: New version (3.46s), AEON (9.68s), Simplified SD (5.14s)
+ N-K-random-2: New version (276.50s), AEON (> 600s), Simplified SD (> 600s)



**Note 1:** I found that nfvs-motifs will have more advantages than other pre-existing methods in terms of attractor detection and **target control** of **N-K models**. Beyond systems biology, such models have been widely studied in physics? Hence, I think we should emphasize these advantages in our experiments.

**Note 2:** Non-deterministic nature of Preprocessing SSF.

 Consider `bbm-bnet-inputs-true/145.bnet`. The result of a run is

`[0] Expanding: 1 fixed vars.`
`Found minimum trap space: {'v_UVB': 1}.`
`Total expanded: 1/1. Fixed vars 1/62 at depth 0.`
`Succession diagram size: 1`
`[id=0;children=0] Candidates: 2`
`Candidates (after): 1`
`Attractor count: 1`

`real	0m0,711s`
`user	0m0,671s`
`sys	0m0,041s`



But the result of another run is

`[0] Expanding: 1 fixed vars.`
`Found minimum trap space: {'v_UVB': 1}.`
`Total expanded: 1/1. Fixed vars 1/62 at depth 0.`
`Succession diagram size: 1`
`[id=0;children=0] Candidates: 2`
`Candidates (after): 1`
`Attractor count: 1`

`real	0m14,317s`
`user	0m14,289s`
`sys	0m0,028s`

The run-time difference is high. We should decrease this non-deterministism.

Overall, I see that Preprocessing SSF can be further improved. I am thinking about such improvements.

### Computation of terminal restriction space

Kyu's pull request was merged into the main branch. However, Jordan found an error with trap spaces and drivers (Issue #51).



### Optimize the percolation function

Issue #50: potential percolation error

Related issue: dict to bdd conversion is very slow (Issue #49)



### Heuristic for setting retained_set

Currently, regarding retained_set, all nodes in NFVS are set to 0.

Hence, it might get much more candidates.

For example, for `random/22.bnet`, we have 

`Succession diagram size: 7`
`[id=0;children=5] Candidates: 1295`

I will implement the heuristic for setting retained_set and test it on several models.



## Next tasks

+ {Van-Giang}Continue to optimize Preprocessing SSF.
+ {Van-Giang}Implement the heuristic for setting retained_set.
+ {Kyu}Revise the error of Pint-reach.
+ {Jordan}Write a specification document describing target features of our tool.
+ {Sam}Optimize the percolation function.



## Next meeting

2:30 pm Tuesday 02/05/2023