# Meeting on 16/05/2023

## Previous tasks

+ {Van-Giang}Investigate the issue on the computation of fixed points of the reduced STG is too slow.
+ {Van-Giang}Implement and test the sampling approach for setting retained_set.
+ {Kyu}Make the experimental design.
+ {Jordan}Write a specification document describing target features of our tool.
+ {Sam}Finish implementing the four options for attractor detection.
+ {Jordan}Implement the control algorithms.
+ {All}Start following the detailed plan.

## Progress

### Methods

#### Heuristics for setting the retained set

Finally, I have found a good heuristic for setting the retained set.

The main idea is as follows.



Case 1: For a node with no child node (i.e., minimal trap space), we try to minimize the number of fixed points belonging to this minimal trap space. In this case, we just apply the rule:

+ If the majority of all assignments make `f_i` TRUE, then `b_i = 1`.

+ If the majority of all assignments make `f_i` FALSE, then `b_i = 0`.
+ Otherwise, ~~`b_i = random.randint(0, 1)`~~ `b_i = 0`

Note that `b_i = m(v_i)` if `v_i \in m`.

Case 2: For a node with at least one child node, we try to maximize the number of fixed points belonging to the space covered by its child nodes. As a consequence, the number of candidates can be much smaller. Let `m` be the node and `m_1, m_2, ..., m_k` are child nodes of `m`. Let `U` be the computed NFVS. We select from `k` child nodes the node (called `m_J`) with the minimum number of common variables with `U`. Then, we apply the rule for every `v_i \in U`:

+ If `v_i \in m`, `b_i = m(v_i)`.
+ If `v_i \in m_J` and `v_i \not \in m`, `b_i = m_J(v_i)`.
+ Otherwise, apply the rule based on the majority of assignments.



Note that, the setting of the retained set is now **deterministic**.

Test on several models. Note that we used AEON to compute the NFVS. Hence, the results are always **deterministic**.

| Model     | Majority heuristic                                    | New heuristic                                       |
| --------- | ----------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------- |
| BBM-083   | [id=1] 71                                             | [id=1] 28                                           |
| BBM-151   | [id=1] 8, [id=6] 36, [id=7] 42, [id=8] 12, [id=17] 48 | [id=1] 0, [id=6] 36, [id=7] 0, [id=8] 0, [id=17] 16 |
| BBM-209   | [id=0] 363                                            | [id=0] 248                                          |
| BBM-210   | [id=0] 302                                            | [id=0] 0                                            |
| BBM-211   | [id=0] 2702                                           | [id=0] 202                                          |
| Random-12 | [id=0] 3, [id=1] 6                                    | [id=0] 3, [id=1] 0                                  |
| Random-50 | [id=0] 26983                                          | [id=0] 4718                                         |



I think the new heuristic is a new contribution showing how the information about maximal trap spaces can be used to reduce the number of candidates needed to be considered, which cannot do with `mtsNFVS`.

#### Terminal restriction space

The use of terminal restriction space seems not effective, i.e., `|F|` is not reduced in most cases. Whereas, the computation of terminal restriction space is too costly in some cases, whose reason might be due to the slow performance of the current version of the percolation function. Hence, I think we can omit the use of terminal restriction space temporally.



I tested more models but I found **no one** where the use of terminal restriction space is effective. Hence, I think we can omit the use of terminal restriction space from now on.

#### Non-deterministism in nfvs-motifs

~~Currently, nfvs-motifs has non-deterministism in two parts. The first one is the heuristic for setting retained_set. The second one is the choice of an update node in Pre-processing SSF. I found that the above non-deterministism is unavoidable. In a positive side, these non-deterministic natures can help nfvs-motifs jump out from some "stuck", and we can exploited them.~~



Now, `nfvs-motis` is non-deterministic only in the choice of an update node in Pre-processing SSF.



We can use symbolic reachability to make `nfvs-motifs` fully deterministic. However, when symbolic reachability exceeds a computational bound (e.g., the maximum BDD size), we need to fall back to Pre-processing SSF.

#### Issue on the computation of the candidate set is too slow

In some models (e.g., Random-41, Random-45), the computation of the candidate set `F` is too slow. The reason is due to `|F|` is too large.



Random-41

`AEON`: `|U| = 40`, `|F| = 360875`

`mtsNFVS`: `|U| = 34`, `|F| = 7214` (however the result is non-deterministic)



Random-45

`AEON`: `|U| = 43`, `OOM`

`mtsNFVS`: `|U| = 29`, `|F| = 1413` (however the result is non-deterministic)



A trick:

+ For random models: use `mtsNFVS` to compute the NFVS
+ For real-world models: use `AEON` to compute the NFVS

#### Summary

I think we can finalize all algorithmic parts on SD construction and attractor detection.

Several improvements are possible, but should be **future studies**.

+ Apply reduction techniques (e.g., the reduction technique proposed in <https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2305.01327>)
+ Handle the bottleneck of too many free variables in minimal trap spaces.



Now, we only need to implement the **control algorithms**.



### Plan for publication

In the "Publication tracking" issue, I saw the term of "partial" succession diagrams with stub nodes. I guess this term is equivalent to the term of "simplified" SDs that we used before. Also, "partial" SDs are different from "goal-driven" SDs. {Sam} Could you please confirm this?



Regarding the paper, in my opinion, there is too much. We should focus on several main points. If we focus on too many things, our paper will be too bulky. However, we also should consider whether the remaining parts are publishable.



I have no concrete ideas right now. What do you think?



## Next tasks

+ {Jordan, Van-Giang}Write a specification document describing target features of our tool.
+ {Sam}Finish implementing the four options for attractor detection.
+ {Jordan}Implement the control algorithms.
+ {All}Start writing the paper.



## Next meeting

~~2:30 pm Tuesday 23/05/2023~~

~~2:30 pm Tuesday 30/05/2023~~

2:30 pm Tuesday 06/06/2023